## Overview

I feel writing is the biggest issue right now. I don't mean just language. Rather, the text is lacking clarity and logic in many places. I feel I am confused and frustrated, so will the reviewers, which is not good. In the next few paragraphs, I try to cover the organization of the manuscript. Comments on particular figures and sentences are included in the word file I will send you.

## Rewrite the subtitles in the Results

As I understand what you told me, the paper really is 2-in-1: first you describe a new, comprehensive and near-gold-standard database for new genes in human and primates; second you answer a few important and unanswered questions that now become accessible thanks to the database. With this in mind, you can effectively use your subtitles to help the readers follow this structure. 

For example, the first and second sections are really to describe the methods behind the database. The first section is a general description. As it is, its subtitle should advertise (emphasize) the most significant improvement on top of previous resources. However, the current subtitle is rather boring (GenTree enables both a gene-level and group-level view of ...). I understand that the strength of GenTree lies in 1) offering gene dating estimates from complementary methods, refined gene annotation based on both functional genomics and molecular evolution data. You should emphasize these or whatever you thing is the greatest strength of the database. 

The second section delves into one specific issue, namely inconsistency between gene-dating methods. You described the phenomenon (inconsistency), discussed the reason behind and offered a solution (or an improvement). The subtitle now doesn't make it clear the issue of inconsistency. It reads like you are describing two methods that focus on different parts of the problem (which is true, but that's not the point of this section). Besides, the content of the section is somewhat confusing. You would jump from talking about dramatic differences in the gene dating estimates by the two classes of methods to stating that they are essentially consistent. I think the main problem is that you write down your thoughts, without the reader in mind. For someone not familiar with this issue, it is important to provide them a clear logic line: the dramatic difference, what's likely the cause, what did you do in GenTree to help resolve this issue, and finally how should the user pick and choose the many estimates provided by GenTree.

The third section is in some sense still dealing with the methods, rather than deriving results. It focuses on a separate issue from the above two sections, namely the annotation of new genes. By annotation, you really refer to a very specific aspect, that is to distinguish functional new genes from the evolutionary relics that either never take on any function or are on the way to become a pseudogene. To this end, you used two different approaches: molecular evidence for transcription and translation and evolutionary signatures in terms of constraint. There is a serious issue in this section related to the terminology. When you refer to PSGs, people (at least myself) tend to think of them as functional new genes, while in reality, at least as far as I understand, you are using PSGs to refer to any ORFs with protein coding potentials and have the gene dating estimate to be primate specific. Only in this context does it make sense to talk about PSGs being real or pseudogenes. You need to devote a few sentences in the beginning to make the issue, the terminology and what you plan to do very clear.

The fourth and fifth parts show new results derived from the GenTree database curation. The fourth section claim that many primate-specific pseudogenes are misannotated and should really be added to the gene pool. I'm not buying that claim, or at least I'm confused by the evidence you provided. At the core of my confusion is this: can you use peptide evidence (including ribo-profiling) against a pseudogene annotation? I think not. If, like you said, pseudogenes are "defined" by at least one Loss-of-Function mutation, which I assume must also occur relatively close to the translation start site, then it is completely compatible with the evidence of short peptide. The real, implicit assumption, I believe, is that a heavily truncated protein is non-functional. The only evidence you provided other than peptide is Ka/Ks, and I didn't see strong evidence there either.

The fifth section concerns the statistical enrichment or deficit of PSGs in various functional groups. My main issue with this section is that the module names are often just a number, and the names in Fig. 6 and Fig. 7 are confusing -- I thought they are from the same system, but after close reading I believe they are different. I suggest 1) add a descriptor for the modules, like you did for the 7 tissue-biased expression modules. For the broadly-expressed ones in Fig. 6, there has to be some biological property that make them cluster together. For those in Fig. 7, I'm sure there will be some meaningful way to describe them